FAQ/Troubleshooting

This section assumes the background information in the Introduction to MateConf
section above.


How do I use MateConf 1 and 2 at the same time?

Things should just work - MateConf 1 apps can talk to the MateConf 2 daemon, and vice
versa.

The tricky part is if you install MateConf 1 and 2 to different prefixes. This
means that by default they will use different sources to find schemas. You can
fix this in several ways; one is to install the schemas for each application to
both source locations, another is to edit prefix/etc/mateconf/2/path to point at
the same sources as prefix/etc/mateconf/1/path and then create a file prefix/etc/
mateconf/schema-install-source containing the address of the source where you want
newly-installed applications to install their schemas.


How do I log in from two machines at once?

You can only have one mateconfd accessing a given configuration source at the same
time. This means you need to share the same mateconfd between the two machines.

However, the default configuration uses locks on the local machine (in /tmp)
instead of inside the home directory (which is obviously going to be remotely
mounted in this case).  This is to make life easier for the simple case of a
single machine, but then mateconfd on the second machine can't find out where the
first mateconfd is running.  To switch to MateConf to using locks in the home
directory, set MATECONF_GLOBAL_LOCKS in the environment before mateconfd starts.

This Just Works, with two common catches:

 ・ You have a firewall between the machines.
 ・ For security reasons, remote CORBA connections are normally disabled by
    default.

To enable remote CORBA connections, add the line "ORBIIOPIPv4=1" to /etc/
matecorbarc and then restart mateconfd using mateconftool-2 --shutdown.

Note that switching to locks in the home directory should only be done if you
are going to turn on remote CORBA connections, having the lock files on the
local machine solves several locking problems in the common single-login case.


I'm having a lock file problem. What do I do?

Usually a problem here involves either NFS, or a kernel bug.

The per-user daemon locks two files when using locks in the home directory:
   ~/.mateconfd/lock/ior
   ~/.mateconf/%mateconf-xml-backend.lock/ior
The first lock is to ensure that only one mateconfd is running. The second lock is
to ensure only one program accesses the XML config source at a time.

If you have an NFS-mounted home directory, you must be running an rpc.statd/
rpc.lockd setup on both NFS client and NFS server, so that file locking works.
On Red Hat Linux, this means the "nfslock" service must be running. Enable it
permanently with the chkconfig tool - see its manual page. Turn it on or off at
any given time with service nfslock start or service nfslock stop. You must be
root to do this.

If the kernel crashes (or the power cord gets pulled) on an NFS client machine,
theoretically when you reboot the client machine it will notify the NFS server
that it has rebooted and all previously-held locks should be released. However,
many operating systems including Red Hat Linux 7.2 do not properly do this; so
you will have stale locks after a crash. If no mateconfd is running, these locks
may safely be removed. If mateconfd is running though, DO NOT remove them; if you
have two mateconfd processes for a single user, very bad things will happen to
that user's preferences.


How can I see log messages from mateconfd?

If you're having mateconf problems, the first step is to see if mateconfd is printing
error messages. To do this, you need to look at the user.* level of syslog. Red
Hat Linux has this level of logging turned off by default, other systems have
it enabled. If you don't have it by default, add a line like this to /etc/
syslog.conf:
 user.* /var/log/user
Then run a command such as service syslog restart to reload the config file. At
that point /var/log/user will begin to log mateconfd messages.

To put mateconfd in hugely verbose mode, you can send it the USR1 signal with kill
-USR1 <process-id> or killall -USR1 mateconfd-2. Send USR1 a second time to toggle
huge verbosity back off. Note that MateConf will get really, really slow when in
verbose mode; syslog is not efficient.


How can I turn off log messages from mateconfd?

Change where user.* messages end up. Syslog unfortunately does not let you
redirect messages according to which daemon sends them, but very little other
than mateconfd uses user.*.


mateconfd keeps me from unmounting my home directory, how can I get it to exit?

It should exit a couple of minutes after the last application using MateConf has
exited. You could put a "mateconftool --shutdown" in your .logout script or the
like, if you want it to exit sooner.

MateConf should really be enhanced in the future to exit immediately when all apps
using it have exited. This can only be done in MateConf 2 since MateCORBA 2 has the
required features. Patches are welcome, otherwise I'll get to it eventually.


What are some tools for debugging/profiling mateconf or apps that use it?

One handy trick is to set the MATECONF_DEBUG_TRACE_CLIENT environment variable
when running a MateConf client application. This will give copious debug output
about what that client is doing.


Some other weird thing is wrong with my mateconf!!!

Try shutting down mateconfd (mateconftool-2 --shutdown) and running the
mateconf-sanity-check-1 or mateconf-sanity-check-2 applications - these will tell you
about common problems. Also, be sure you have the latest MateConf version.

If you can't figure out what's going on, mail mateconf-list@mate.org with the
following information:

 ・ Exact error messages from any applications.
 ・ Exact version of MateConf 1 and MateConf 2 that you have installed.
 ・ Output of ps jaxwww | grep mateconf.
 ・ Output of mateconf-sanity-check-1 or mateconf-sanity-check-2 if any.
 ・ What operating system are you using, and what version of it.
 ・ What appears in the user.* syslog (see above for how to turn on user.*
    syslog).

Before you mail, please read this whole web page.


Where do I report bugs or make suggestions?

Go to http://bugzilla.mate.org and enter a new bug, or run the MATE
"bug-buddy" application.

DO NOT put support requests in bugzilla; mail mateconf-list as noted in the
previous question.
